Stack & Queue/3. Implement Stack using Queue.md, before:

# Stack Implementation Using a Single Queue

This project demonstrates how to implement a stack data structure using a single queue. The stack follows the **Last In First Out (LIFO)** rule, and the queue follows the **First In First Out (FIFO)** rule.

## Problem Statement

Implement the following stack operations using a single queue:

1. `push(x)`: Insert an element `x` into the stack.
2. `pop()`: Remove and return the topmost element of the stack.
3. `top()`: Return the topmost element of the stack without removing it.
4. `size()`: Return the current size of the stack.

## Approach

To implement the stack using a queue:

- **push(x)**:
    - Add the element `x` to the queue.
    - Rotate the elements in the queue, moving the front elements to the back until the element `x` becomes the first element in the queue, simulating the stack behavior.
  
- **pop()**:
    - Remove and return the front element from the queue.
  
- **top()**:
    - Return the front element of the queue, which is the most recent element added (the top of the stack).
  
- **size()**:
    - Return the size of the queue.

## Code

```java
import java.util.*;

public class tuf {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        stack s = new stack();
        s.push(3);
        s.push(2);
        s.push(4);
        s.push(1);
        System.out.println("Top of the stack: " + s.top());
        System.out.println("Size of the stack before removing element: " + s.size());
        System.out.println("The deleted element is: " + s.pop());
        System.out.println("Top of the stack after removing element: " + s.top());
        System.out.println("Size of the stack after removing element: " + s.size());
    }

}

class stack {
    Queue < Integer > q = new LinkedList < > ();

    // Pushes an element onto the stack
    void push(int x) {
        q.add(x);
        // Rotate elements to simulate stack behavior
        for (int i = 0; i < q.size() - 1; i++) {
            q.add(q.remove());
        }
    }

    // Removes and returns the topmost element from the stack
    int pop() {
        return q.remove();
    }

    // Returns the topmost element of the stack without removing it
    int top() {
        return q.peek();
    }

    // Returns the size of the stack
    int size() {
        return q.size();
    }
}
```

### Time Complexity
- Push Operation: O(N), where N is the number of elements in the queue, because we perform a rotation for every new element.
- Pop Operation: O(1), as we simply remove the front element of the queue.
- Top Operation: O(1), as we only peek at the front element of the queue.
- Size Operation: O(1), as we simply return the size of the queue.

### Space Complexity
Space Complexity: O(N), where N is the number of elements in the stack, because we store the stack elements in the queue.

Commit message:

Update 3. Implement Stack using Queue.md

Stack & Queue/3. Implement Stack using Queue.md, after:

# Stack Implementation Using a Single Queue

This project demonstrates how to implement a stack data structure using a single queue. The stack follows the **Last In First Out (LIFO)** rule, and the queue follows the **First In First Out (FIFO)** rule.

## Problem Statement

Implement the following stack operations using a single queue:

1. `push(x)`: Insert an element `x` into the stack.
2. `pop()`: Remove and return the topmost element of the stack.
3. `top()`: Return the topmost element of the stack without removing it.
4. `size()`: Return the current size of the stack.

## Approach

To implement the stack using a queue:

- **push(x)**:
    - Add the element `x` to the queue.
    - Rotate the elements in the queue, moving the front elements to the back until the element `x` becomes the first element in the queue, simulating the stack behavior.
  
- **pop()**:
    - Remove and return the front element from the queue.
  
- **top()**:
    - Return the front element of the queue, which is the most recent element added (the top of the stack).
  
- **size()**:
    - Return the size of the queue.
      
## NOTE:

```yaml
In Queue values will be like this, 12345
but in stack values are accessed like this,54321
if insertion order is 12345
so we can say that stack accesses values in reverse.
```

## Algo:
1. For Push, add values to queue.
2. reverse the order of Pushed values.

## Code

```java
import java.util.*;

public class tuf {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        stack s = new stack();
        s.push(3);
        s.push(2);
        s.push(4);
        s.push(1);
        System.out.println("Top of the stack: " + s.top());
        System.out.println("Size of the stack before removing element: " + s.size());
        System.out.println("The deleted element is: " + s.pop());
        System.out.println("Top of the stack after removing element: " + s.top());
        System.out.println("Size of the stack after removing element: " + s.size());
    }

}

class stack {
    Queue < Integer > q = new LinkedList < > ();

    // Pushes an element onto the stack
    void push(int x) {
        q.add(x);
        // Rotate elements to simulate stack behavior
        for (int i = 0; i < q.size() - 1; i++) {
            q.add(q.remove());
        }
    }

    // Removes and returns the topmost element from the stack
    int pop() {
        return q.remove();
    }

    // Returns the topmost element of the stack without removing it
    int top() {
        return q.peek();
    }

    // Returns the size of the stack
    int size() {
        return q.size();
    }
}
```

### Time Complexity
- Push Operation: O(N), where N is the number of elements in the queue, because we perform a rotation for every new element.
- Pop Operation: O(1), as we simply remove the front element of the queue.
- Top Operation: O(1), as we only peek at the front element of the queue.
- Size Operation: O(1), as we simply return the size of the queue.

### Space Complexity
Space Complexity: O(N), where N is the number of elements in the stack, because we store the stack elements in the queue.
